When you give Claude code the ability to
instantly watch any video on the
internet for free, it becomes genuinely
unstoppable. With this Claude skill,
Claude can understand video as well as
it reads PDFs. Hours long YouTube
videos, Instagram reels, Looms, local
files, anything. Before Claude was just
guessing, now it can watch the whole
thing frame by frame instantly. It's
like Neo plugging into the Matrix. By
the time you've hit play, Claude's
already watched the whole thing and
become an expert. a bunch of transcript
tools before developing this one and
they all let me down. They either cost
way too much or they only ever read the
transcript and missed half the video.
This skill gives Claude the frames and
the audio together, so it actually sees
what's happening on screen. Right now,
I'll walk you through exactly how it all
works. The use case that completely
changed how I consume content and how to
set this up in your own Claude code in
under 5 minutes. Here's what it actually
looks like on a 45-minute video done in
less than a few minutes. On the left, I
have a YC lecture from Sam Altman about
how to start a startup. I'm going to
press play on that now and then grab the
URL. All I have to do is go over to
Claude and type  watch and then
paste the URL here. Then Claude gets to
work grabbing the subtitles from YouTube
for free, extracting the frames and
analyzing them all together. So, the
reason this is better than just pulling
the transcript is because Claude can
actually grab the frames from this
video. In this lecture, Sam goes through
and shows a bunch of really great
graphs. And this is important context
for Claude because if you're only
getting the transcript, you're only
getting half of the information. Now,
here's where most of the existing video
tools fall short because they base
everything around the transcript. When
something happens on screen and it's not
explicitly referenced in the transcript,
Claude doesn't know about it and you
miss out on key context, which matters
because half of the interesting stuff in
video isn't said out loud. It happens on
screen. So, this skill actually watches.
It pulls frame by frame screenshots and
puts it together with a per second
timestamped transcript to get Claude the
full picture and full context. And just
like that, we're only 2 minutes into the
lecture. Sam is still introducing what
he's going to talk about today and
Claude has already ingested the entire
thing. I have a structured summary of
all of the speakers. I can see exactly
what they talk about and now I can
actually query Claude on anything about
this context and then start to put it to
work instantly right here in the
terminal. That's a 45-minute video done
in less than 2 minutes. Watched,
analyzed, and applied. That's the Matrix
moment. You're not watching content
anymore. downloading context
automatically and putting it to work
straight away. And you're probably
thinking at the moment there's some
expensive API doing the heavy lifting
here, but there isn't. But before we get
into that, let's get into the setup. By
the way, I'm giving this whole skill
away for free on GitHub. The link is in
the description below. Just run these
install commands and the setup takes
care of the rest. Once the skill is
installed, Claude runs the setup script
and installs any dependencies that you
don't have already. It authenticates
with the transcription API. Don't worry,
this one is pretty much free and we'll
get to it in a second. But under the
hood, the pipeline is actually
surprisingly simple. Now, here's the
part that nobody really talks about.
Claude can't actually watch video
because Anthropic doesn't have a video
model yet. There are some other
providers that can, like Google's Gemini
model, but they're pretty expensive and
they don't integrate nicely with Claude.
So, if you're watching a lot of content,
that bill stacks up pretty fast.
Luckily, there's a smarter way to do
this because if you really break it
down, a video is just two things. It's a
bunch of frames and the transcript.
That's it. So, instead of paying for
another expensive model, I can just
split the video into those two pieces
and hand it to Claude in a format that
it already knows how to read, pictures
and text. Now, this is the part I love
because the skill is doing this with two
of the oldest, most battle-tested
command-line tools on the internet,
YouTube-DL and FFmpeg. These aren't
MCPs. They're not some new wrapper.
There's no third-party service involved
in the middle here. They install once,
right on your machine. Millions of
developers have used them for over a
decade now. They're rock solid and
completely free. And they're what every
video tool you've ever touched is
probably using under the hood. YTDL is
the download. You can think of it as a
right-click save video, but it works on
basically the whole internet. FFmpeg is
the video engine. It takes the video and
turns it into two things that Claude
actually wants. First, screenshots,
which are taken every few seconds all
the way through the video. And then
second, the audio file, which is pulled
out as a clean little file ready to be
transcribed into text using Whisper.
Now, Claude has the full picture when we
put these two together. It's flipping
through the screenshots like a flipbook,
reading the transcript like a script,
and the timestamps line up exactly, so
it knows on screen when something is
being said. So, that's the whole
pipeline. YouTube-DL and FFmpeg doing
all the heavy lifting locally on your
laptop for free. The only thing we
actually have to pay for here is the
transcription and Claude usage. Captions
transcription is pretty much free. The
skill just pulls them. And if it
doesn't, it transcribes the audio using
Whisper hosted on Grok or OpenAI. I
prefer Grok because it's extremely fast
and their free tier covers basically
anything you throw at it. So, most
videos cost you literally nothing to
transcribe. I even used this exact skill
to grow Universal Context Layer for
content research and I'll show you
exactly how it works in a minute. And I
can literally hear the keyboards
clattering right now, Brad, this is
going to torture your token budget. This
actually surprised me, so let's do the
math. The skill scales frame count to
video length and it actually caps
anything over 30 minutes to 100 frames.
So, a 30-minute video and a 1-hour video
pretty much cost the same amount in
dollar terms. And that's about $1 per
run. I ran every test in this video
three times in parallel and burned less
than 10% of my session. And that's over
5 hours of video watched live by Claude
with transcription. And the
transcription part's where it gets
ridiculous. Every YouTube video comes
with a free transcript. The skill just
pulls them. There's no Whisper, no API
call. It's totally free. And that goes
for a bunch of other sites, too. Whisper
only kicks in for the stuff without
captions, like a raw MP4, a Loom, or
Instagram reel. Grok's free tier
actually gives you 2 hours of
transcriptions per hour, which covers
more than you'll realistically throw at
it. I've used this skill every day for 2
weeks and I'm still on the free tier.
It's crazy. Look, I'm not saying this is
perfect and there's probably
optimizations I haven't thought of, but
for most people watching, this is
essentially free. If you got ideas to
make it cheaper or quicker, drop them in
the comments below. Once I realized this
was basically free, I started running it
on everything, which is how I ended up
building the system I'll show you at the
end. And it's one that's genuinely
changed how I consume content. Here's
the part that actually makes this skill
a must-have. It works on any URL YTDL
supports, which is over 1,000 sites.
This isn't just limited to the big
social media companies or YouTube. And
it even works if you have the files
locally downloaded. So, that opens up a
bunch of use cases that you probably
wouldn't expect. So, this is what I'm
doing for content research now. I take a
a winning video from the internet and I
ask Claude to break down the hook.
Claude tells me the visual setup, the
exact words, where the pattern interrupt
lands, and what's on screen at the
moment of the hook. Stuff that used to
take me 10 minutes per video, pausing
and scrubbing, now it's just a paste.
And for developers, there's another use
case, debugging screen recordings. If
you're a developer and a UI bug shows
up, you record a 30-second screen
recording, drop it into Claude, and ask
what happens right before the crash.
Claude reads the frames around that
moment, finds a state change, and tells
you the exact frame the issue starts
with. That alone has saved me hours. The
skill also has a zoom flag, start time,
and end time, so you can drop those in
and Claude can focus frame-by-frame
extraction on a specific window of a
video. So, you can ask about a 10-second
segment of a 2-hour video without
burning your entire context window.
Whatever you're using video for, you can
probably stop watching it manually
because of this skill. So, earlier I
told you that once you start using this
thing, it seriously starts to change how
you consume content. Now, I want to show
you my personal favorite use case for
it, which is feeding my second brain. I
keep a knowledge base in Obsidian with
notes, snippets, and ideas for content.
And the bottleneck for me has always
been throughput because there's just so
much good content out there by creators
at the moment, there's not enough time
to watch it all and write it all down.
So, I let Claude do both. I give it
every single competitor that I think
makes great content and then from there,
Claude uses the watch skill to
automatically watch it and feed it
straight into my second brain. So,
Claude watches each of these videos,
frames, audio, everything, and then
comes back with a clean structure and
notes about what made the video work. It
fills that straight into the second
brain. And this is where things start to
compound because the skill and your
second brain are watching more and more
videos, getting more and more context,
and it's getting better and better over
time, getting smarter automatically. The
second brain side of this whole thing is
a video on its own. And I walk through
exactly how I run mine, content
research, competitor intel, every
podcast video I've ever listened to, all
in one searchable layer in Obsidian. If
that's where you want to take this,
that's the next video to watch. It's
linked up here. If this was useful, hit
subscribe. Thanks for watching and I'll
see you in the next one.